## OPTIONS

`--layout` `monocle`|`left`|`right`|`top`|`bottom`|`wide`
:   Initial layout, default `left`.

`--layout-alt` `monocle`|`left`|`right`|`top`|`bottom`|`wide`
:   Initial alternate layout, default `monocle`.
Use `--layout-toggle` to switch to alternate layout.

`--stack` `even`|`diminish`|`dwindle`
:   Initial stacking method, default `dwindle`.

`--count-master` *count*
:   Initial number of views in the master area, default `1`, minimum `0`.
Does not apply to wide layout.

`--ratio-master` *ratio*
:   Initial proportion of the width or height the master area occupies, default `0.5`, minimum `0.1`, maximum `0.9`.
Does not apply to wide layout.

`--count-wide-left` *count*
:   Initial number of views in the wide layout's left stack area, default `1`, minimum `0`.
You may wish to set this to 0 for a more natural or intuitive feel when launching the first two views.

`--ratio-wide` *ratio*
:   Initial proportion of the width the wide layout's master area occupies, default `0.35`, minimum `0.1`, maximum `0.9`.
The default value is best suited to ultrawide monitors, a value of `0.5` may be more useful for 16:9 monitors.

`--(no-)smart-gaps`
:   Automatically hides the gaps when there is only one view or monocle layout.

`--border-width-smart-gaps`
:   Border width for when smart gaps hides the gaps for all layouts except monocle, default `0`, minimum `0`.
Has no effect if `--no-smart-gaps`.

`--inner-gaps` *pixels*
:   Inner gaps width, default `0`, minimum `0`.

`--outer-gaps` *pixels*
:   Outer gaps width, default `0`, minimum `0`.

`--border-width` *pixels*
:   Border width for all layouts except monocle, default `2`, minimum `0`.

`--border-width-monocle` *pixels*
:   Border width for monocle layout, default `0`, minimum `0`.

`--border-color-focused` `0x`*RRGGBB*[*AA*]
:   Border color for focused views in all layouts excluding monocle, default `0x93a1a1`.

`--border-color-focused-monocle` `0x`*RRGGBB*[*AA*]
:   Border color for focused view in monocle layout, default `0x586e75`.
It is recommended to set this to the unfocused color or a darker colour as an always focused border can be distracting.

`--border-color-unfocused` `0x`*RRGGBB*[*AA*]
:   Border color for unfocused views in all layouts, default `0x586e75`.
Does not apply for monocle layout.

`--log-threshold` `debug`|`info`|`warning`|`error`
:   Minimum log level, default `info`.

## COMMANDS

When multiple tags are focused, the command is applied to and persisted for only the lowest tag.

`--layout` `monocle`|`left`|`right`|`top`|`bottom`|`wide`
:   Set layout persistently for the tag, updating the alternate layout.

`--layout-toggle`
:   Set layout to the alternate (previous) for the tag.

`--stack` `diminish`|`dwindle`|`dwindle`
:   Set stacking method persistently for the tag.
Applies to all layouts for the tag.

`--count` [`+-`]*count*
:   Increment, decrement or set the master count, minimum `0`.
For wide layout this is instead the left stack count.
Discrete value for wide and all other layouts are persisted per tag.
Prefix with `+` to increment, `-` to decrement, or an absolute value.

`--ratio` [`+-`]*pixels*
:   Increase, decrease or set the master ratio: the proportion of the width or height the master area occupies, minimum `0.1`, maximum `0.9`.
Discrete tiling and wide values persisted per tag.
Prefix with `+` to increase, `-` to decrease, or an absolute value.

## RECIPES

### Wide Shuffling

You can "shuffle" views through master, focusing the new master using:

`riverctl send-layout-cmd wideriver '--count +1' && riverctl focus-view next"`

`riverctl send-layout-cmd wideriver '--count -1' && riverctl focus-view previous"`

## FAQ

### Name Does Not Always Update

The layout name will not update when there are no views for the selected tags. This can occurs when setting a tag with no views or changing the layout for a tag with no views.

This may be resolved with a river enhancement: [#1004](https://github.com/riverwm/river/issues/1002)

### Borders Are Not Shown

Please ensure you have enabled server side decorations i.e. the borders:

``` sh
riverctl rule-add ssd
```

You can still use client side decorations for specific applications e.g.:

``` sh
riverctl rule-add -app-id audacity csd
```

### Random Pixels In Gaps When Using Fractional Scaling

This is a known river and wlroots issue: https://codeberg.org/river/river/issues/816

Workaround: set a river background colour other than default black `0x000000`

`riverctl background-color "0x010101"` is sufficiently close.

## ISSUES

### Problems

Please raise a [Bug Report](https://github.com/alex-courtis/wideriver/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&projects=&template=bug_report.yml)

### Ideas

Please create a [Feature Request](https://github.com/alex-courtis/wideriver/issues/new?assignees=&labels=feature&projects=&template=feature_request.yml)

### Questions or Discussions

Please raise an [Issue](https://github.com/alex-courtis/wideriver/issues/new)

### Contributions

[CONTRIBUTING.md](doc/CONTRIBUTING.md) is most gratefully appreciated.

[//]: # vim: set filetype=markdown ts=4 sw=4 et :
